# EMS
Examination Management System Software Program

-Program made using Java Programming language.

-Three types of accounts: Student, Instructor, Admin.
-Admin can add accounts to the system.

General Functions for Student/Instruction account-type:

1) User can login to the system using their username & password.
2) User can change their username
3) User can change their password
4) User can view their account information (Name, Username, Phone number, Email).
5) User can logout of the system.

Specific Functions for Student account-type:

1) Student can take an exam by entering a specific Exam ID given by the instructor.
3) Student can only take an exam ONCE. If the student attempts to take an already-taken exam, the program would display an error stating that the exam has already been taken.
4) During the exam, the student is shown a timer at the top of the window.
5) Student can answer the question given by entering the choice index of which they think is correct.
6) Each question is given alongside it's mark.
7) Student is shown their total grade when they submit the exam.

Specific Functions for Instructor account-type:

1) Instructor can add a new exam.
2) Upon choosing to add a new exam, the Instructor is required to enter the number of questions, the Course Code for the exam, release date, start time, and end time.
3) Exam ID is automatically generated by the program, thus the Instructor is required to write down/save the exam ID to be able to hand it to the students.
4) Instructor can add N questions to the exam. For each question, the Instructor is required to enter the question, 4 answers (1 right, 3 wrong), the correct-choice index, and the grade for this question.
5) Exam total grade is automatically calculated by the program.
6) Instructor can view the Histogram of a specific exam, by using a specific exam ID.
7) Instructor can view the Evaluation Report of a specific exam, by using a specific exam ID.

Exception-Handling:

1) During login, user can't leave either username or password fields empty. If that occured, the program displays an error stating that they need to fill the blanks.
2) Upon changing username, if username leaves the text field empty, the program displays an error stating that they need to fill the blank.
3) Upon changing password, if username leaves the password field empty, the program displays an error stating that they need to fill the blank. 
4) Upon taking an exam, if the student doesn't enter a specific exam ID in the text field, the program displays an error stating that they need to fill the blank.
5) Upon taking an exam, student can NOT enter characters other than numbers in the text field. If student attempts to, the program simply doesn't allow it in the text field.
6) Upon taking an exam, if the student enters an INVALID exam ID, the program displays an error stating that they need to enter a VALID exam ID.
7) During an exam, if the student leaves the choice index empty, the program displays an error stating that they need to fill the blank.
8) During an exam, the student can only choose an answer between indexes 1 & 4, otherwise, the program displays en error stating that they need to enter a value between 1 & 4 ONLY.
9) Student can NOT exit during an exam, they must finish the exam.
10) Upon adding a new exam, Instructor must fill all the blanks required, else, the program displays an error stating that they need to fill the blanks.
11) Upon adding a new exam, Instructor can only set the number of questions from 1 to infinity, else, the program displays an error stating that they need to enter a value greater than ZERO (i.e. positive values only).
12) Upon adding questions, Instructor must fill all the blanks required, else, the program displays an error stating that they need to fill the blanks.
13) Upon viewing the Histogram of a specific exam, if Instructor enters an INVALID exam ID, the program displays an error stating that they need to enter a VALID exam ID.
14) Upon viewing the Evaluation Report of a specific exam, if Instructor enters an INVALID exam ID, the program displays an error stating that they need to enter a VALID exam ID.
